Adyen headless FC-858 (#356)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/advanced/payments/adyen.md

This page contains information about the different ways you can accept payments with [Adyen](https://www.adyen.com/) in your Front-Commerce application.

> ## Headless integration (no magento modules needed)

Reviewer: Magento (with a capital M).

Also I'm unsure _Headless integration_ is the right term, I mean even with the
Magento2 module we are headless. Maybe:

```suggestion
## As a Front-Commerce payment (no Magento modules needed)
```

also before this title, an introduction to explain the main difference between the 2 options would be interesting.

> ## As a Front-Commerce payment (no Magento modules needed)

Reviewer 2: I don't think it is necessary to add the `(no Magento modules needed)` also please be aware that when Algolia crawls the docs, it reads secondary headers as well, which means that this would be indexed.

Author: renamed and added a note at the begining:
```md
P.S. No Magento modules are needed if you use this method. If you however want to integrate with the adyen Magento module please refer to [Magento2 Integration section](#As-a-Magento2-Integration).
```

> ## As a Front-Commerce payment (no Magento modules needed)

Reviewer 2: Maybe have this title more related to the magneto section so that it's more apparent that they are different.
```diff
- ## As a Front-Commerce payment (no Magento modules needed)
+ ## As a Front-Commerce payment method
```

and then for the next section:
```diff
- ## Magento2 module
+ ## As a Magento2 Integration
```

It might be good to add a description at line 7 explaining the difference between `As a Front-Commerce payment` and `As a Magento2 Integration`, almost like a table of content?

<blockquote class="feature--new">
  _Since version 2.10.0_
</blockquote>

### Add the required environment variables

> You need to define the following environment variables:

Reviewer 2: **nitpick:** I think this repeats what is described in the title.
```suggestion
```

> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_MERCHANT_ACCOUNT` The merchant account name. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area in the top left corner next to your company name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_MERCHANT_ACCOUNT` The merchant account name. You can find it in your Adyen Customer Area in the top left corner next to your company name
```

same issue pretty much everywhere in that page

* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_MERCHANT_ACCOUNT` your merchant account name. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area in the top left corner next to your company name.
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY` environment variable so that it contains [your Adyen client key](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/client-side-authentication) for the domains of your Front-Commerce stores. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > Client Key > Client Key`.

> * `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_API_KEY` you api key. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > API Key > API Key`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_API_KEY` your api key. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > API Key > API Key`.
```

> * `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_MERCHANT_ACCOUNT` your merchant account name. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area in the top left corner next to your company name.
> * `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY` environment variable so that it contains [your Adyen client key](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/client-side-authentication) for the domains of your Front-Commerce stores. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > Client Key > Client Key`.
> * `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_API_KEY` you api key. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > API Key > API Key`.

Reviewer 2: **nitpicking**  

```suggestion
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_MERCHANT_ACCOUNT` The merchant account name. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area in the top left corner next to your company name.
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY` The environment variable which contains [your Adyen client key](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/client-side-authentication) for the domains of your Front-Commerce stores. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > Client Key > Client Key`.
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_API_KEY` The API key. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > API Key > API Key`.
```

> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY` The environment variable which contains [your Adyen client key](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/client-side-authentication) for the domains of your Front-Commerce stores. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > Client Key > Client Key`
> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_API_KEY` The API key. You can find it in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > API Key > API Key`
> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_LIVE_URL_PREFIX` only needed in production environment. Should be configured to contain [the adyen live URL prefix](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/live-endpoints#live-url-prefix)
> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME` (more on [webhooks below](#Add-webhook)) you create it. You then have to copy it to the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Authentication > User Name`
> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD` (more on [webhooks below)](#Add-webhook) you create it. You then have to copy it to the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Authentication > Password`
> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` (more on [webhooks below](#Add-webhook)) create it from the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Additional Settings > HMAC key`

Reviewer 3: Nitpick : 
```suggestion
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY` The environment variable which contains [your Adyen client key](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/client-side-authentication) for the domains of your Front-Commerce stores. You can find it in your Adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > Client Key > Client Key`
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_API_KEY` The API key. You can find it in your Adyen Customer Area under `Developers > API Credential > [your_prefered_credential] > API Key > API Key`
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_LIVE_URL_PREFIX` only needed in production environment. Should be configured to contain [the Adyen live URL prefix](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/live-endpoints#live-url-prefix)
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME` (more on [webhooks below](#Add-webhook)) you create it. You then have to copy it to the webhook section in your Adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Authentication > User Name`
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD` (more on [webhooks below)](#Add-webhook) you create it. You then have to copy it to the webhook section in your Adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Authentication > Password`
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` (more on [webhooks below](#Add-webhook)) create it from the webhook section in your Adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Additional Settings > HMAC key`
```

> * `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME` (more on webhooks below) you create it. You then have to copy it to the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Authentication > User Name`.
> * `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD` (more on webhooks below) you create it. You then have to copy it to the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Authentication > Password`.
> * `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` (more on webhooks below) create it from the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Additional Settings > HMAC key`.
> * `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_PREVIOUS_HMAC_KEY` (more on webhooks below) when you regenerate your HMAC key configure this to be the old one.

Reviewer 2: Just ensure that the hash is correct, but it should slugify to that based on the title

```suggestion
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME` (more on [webhooks](#add-webhook) below) you create it. You then have to copy it to the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Authentication > User Name`.
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD` (more on [webhooks](#add-webhook) below) you create it. You then have to copy it to the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Authentication > Password`.
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` (more on [webhooks](#add-webhook) below) create it from the webhook section in your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks > [your_prefered_webhook] > Additional Settings > HMAC key`.
* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_PREVIOUS_HMAC_KEY` (more on [webhooks](#add-webhook) below) when you regenerate your HMAC key configure this to be the old one.
```

# In .env
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_MERCHANT_ACCOUNT=ExampleMerchant
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY=live_32charactersstring
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_API_KEY=a_very_very_very_long_key
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_LIVE_URL_PREFIX=1797a841fbb37ca7-AdyenDemo-
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME=a_username
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD=a_password
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY=the_hmac_key
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_PREVIOUS_HMAC_KEY=the_previous_hmac_key
# the Adyen client key is prefixed with live_ or test_
```

### Register the Adyen payment module in Front-Commerce

In your Front-Commerce application:

> For magento1:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Magento1:
```

```diff
// .front-commerce.js
-  modules: [],
+  modules: ["./node_modules/front-commerce/modules/payment-adyen"],
   serverModules: [
     { name: "FrontCommerceCore", path: "server/modules/front-commerce-core" },
-    { name: "Magento1", path: "server/modules/magento1" }
+    { name: "Magento1", path: "server/modules/magento1" },
+    {
+      name: "Magento1Adyen",
+      path: "payment-adyen/server/modules/payment-adyen",
+    }
   ],
   webModules: [
-    { name: "FrontCommerce", path: "front-commerce/src/web" }
+    { name: "FrontCommerce", path: "front-commerce/src/web" },
+    {

> +      name: "Magento1Adyen",

Reviewer: this part is not specific to Magento1, to limit possible confusion, it could be called just `Adyen` and same for the Magento2 case

+      path: "front-commerce/modules/payment-adyen/web",
+    }
   ]
```

> For magento2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Magento2:
```

@import "~theme/modules/Adyen/dropinCustomizations";
```

### Add webhook

> From your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks` click on `+ Webkook` button on the right top corner then click on `Add` for the `Standard Notification` type. Fill the fields as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your Adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks` click on the `+ Webkook` button on the right top corner then click on `Add` for the `Standard Notification` type. Fill the fields as follows:
```

Author: done in 9c2b629bbcb77cc2c8ca238288da9815de60076a

> From your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks` click on `+ Webkook` button on the right top corner then click on `Add` for the `Standard Notification` type. Fill the fields as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From your Adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks` click on `+ Webkook` button on the right top corner then click on `Add` for the `Standard Notification` type. Fill the fields as follows:
```

- Transport:
  - URL: the full url of your site followed by `/webhooks/payment/notification/adyen` e.g. `https://www.example.com/webhooks/payment/notification/adyen`
  - Method: JSON
- Authentication:
  - User Name: the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME` environment variable defined above
  - Password: the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD` environment variable defined above
- Additional Settings
  - HMAC Key (HEX Encoded): click generate and copy it to `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` environment variable defined above

### That's it!

> You can now configure the your adyen payment methods from Customer Area under `Settings > Payment Methods` and [test the integration](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/test-cards/test-card-numbers)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now configure your Adyen payment methods from the Customer Area under `Settings > Payment Methods` and [test the integration](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/test-cards/test-card-numbers)
```

> You can now configure the your adyen payment methods from Customer Area under `Settings > Payment Methods` and [test the integration](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/test-cards/test-card-numbers)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can now configure the your Adyen payment methods from Customer Area under `Settings > Payment Methods` and [test the integration](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/test-cards/test-card-numbers)
```

<blockquote class="note">

> Please keep in mind that Adyen payment methods depends on the Customer country, the Cart amount and the Store currency. Different contexts could display different payment methods in the checkout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please keep in mind that Adyen payment methods depend on the Customer's country, the Cart amount, and the Store currency. Different contexts could display different payment methods in the checkout.
```

</blockquote>

## Magento2 module

<blockquote class="feature--new">
  _Since version 2.3.0 (developer preview since 2.1.0)_
</blockquote>

<blockquote class="note">

> **Note** This integration is aimed at being transparent for administrators and developers. That is why we haven't duplicated documentation from existing Magento resources. Please <span class="intercom-launcher">[contact us](mailto:support@front-commerce.com)</span> if you need further assistance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note** This integration aims to be transparent for administrators and developers. That is why we haven't duplicated documentation from existing Magento resources. Please <span class="intercom-launcher">[contact us](mailto:support@front-commerce.com)</span> if you need further assistance.
```

</blockquote>

Front-Commerce is compatible with [Adyen's official Magento headless integration](https://docs.adyen.com/plugins/magento-2/magento-headless-integration) in its native version.

> This integration is slightly different from [traditional Magento2 headless payments](/docs/magento2/headless-payments.html) in that sense that it contains a "companion component" in Front-Commerce. The component allows to display and Authorize payments from the checkout page, using [Adyen's Web Drop-in integration](https://docs.adyen.com/online-payments/drop-in-web) on the front-end. No redirection to other payment platform is involved unless its absolutely necessary, the Customer remains on the Front-Commerce store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration is slightly different from [traditional Magento2 headless payments](/docs/magento2/headless-payments.html) in the sense that it contains a "companion component" in Front-Commerce. The component allows to display and Authorize payments from the checkout page, using [Adyen's Web Drop-in integration](https://docs.adyen.com/online-payments/drop-in-web) on the front-end. No redirection to other payment platforms is involved unless it's absolutely necessary, the customer remains on the Front-Commerce store.
```

Here is how to set this payment method up.

### Install and configure the `Adyen_Payment` Magento2 extension (7.2+)

Follow [Adyen's documentation](https://docs.adyen.com/plugins/magento-2) to install and configure the official Magento2 extension for Adyen payments. The minimum supported version is [7.2.0](https://github.com/Adyen/adyen-magento2/releases/tag/7.2.0).

You must configure the "Payment Origin URL" in the "Advanced: PWA" with your Front-Commerce URL **for each of your stores**.

<blockquote class="important">

> **IMPORTANT** please note that enabling or disabling payments in Magento's admin area has no effect on payment methods visible on the storefront. This is a *feature* from the module: every active payment methods in Adyen will be available. **You either have to filter them in the frontend or from your Adyen account.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**IMPORTANT** please note that enabling or disabling payments in Magento's admin area has no effect on payment methods visible on the storefront. This is a *feature* of the module: every active payment method in Adyen will be available. **You either have to filter them in the frontend or from your Adyen account.**
```

@import "~theme/modules/Adyen/dropinCustomizations";
```

### Add webhook

From your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks` click on `+ Webkook` button on the right top corner then click on `Add` for the `Standard Notification` type. Fill the fields as follows:

- Transport:
  - URL: the full url of your site followed by `/webhooks/payment/notification/adyen` e.g. `https://www.example.com/webhooks/payment/notification/adyen`
  - Method: JSON
- Authentication:

>   - User Name: the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME` environement variable defined above
>   - Password: the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD` environement variable defined above
> - Additional Settings
>   - HMAC Key (HEX Encoded): click generate and copy it to `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` environement variable defined above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - User Name: the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME` environment variable defined above
  - Password: the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD` environment variable defined above
- Additional Settings
  - HMAC Key (HEX Encoded): click generate and copy it to `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` environment variable defined above
```

(as said in a previous PR, you should install a spellchecker in your editor to avoid this kind of typos.)

Author: installed

You must configure the "Payment Origin URL" in the "Advanced: PWA" with your Front-Commerce URL **for each of your stores**.

<blockquote class="important">
**IMPORTANT** please note that enabling or disabling payments in Magento's admin area has no effect on payment methods visible on the storefront. This is a *feature* from the module: every active payment methods in Adyen will be available. **You either have to filter them in the frontend or from your Adyen account.**
</blockquote>

### Add the Adyen client key in the environment

You need to define the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY` environment variable so that it contains [your Adyen client key](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/client-side-authentication) for the domains of your Front-Commerce stores:

```sh
# In .env
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY=live_32charactersstring
# the Adyen client key is prefixed with live_ or test_
```

### Register the Adyen payment module in Front-Commerce

> [Same as above](#Register-the-Adyen-payment-module-in-Front-Commerce)

Reviewer: this step is actually different than the previous one since it's not the same module and is only for Magento2

### Register your Adyen payment components

> (Same as above)[#Register-your-Adyen-payment-components]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Same as above](#Register-your-Adyen-payment-components)
```

@import "~theme/modules/Adyen/dropinCustomizations";
```

### Add webhook

From your adyen Customer Area under `Developers > Webhooks` click on `+ Webkook` button on the right top corner then click on `Add` for the `Standard Notification` type. Fill the fields as follows:

* Transport:
   * URL: the full url of your site followed by `/webhooks/payment/notification/adyen` e.g. `https://www.example.com/webhooks/payment/notification/adyen`
   * Method: JSON
* Authentication:
   * User Name: the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_USERNAME` environement variable defined above
   * Password: the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_NOTIFICATION_PASSWORD` environement variable defined above
* Additional Settings

>    * HMAC Key (HEX Encoded): click generate and copy it to `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` environement variable defined above
> ### That's it!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * HMAC Key (HEX Encoded): click generate and copy it to `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_HMAC_KEY` environement variable defined above
   
### That's it!
```

You must configure the "Payment Origin URL" in the "Advanced: PWA" with your Front-Commerce URL **for each of your stores**.

<blockquote class="important">
**IMPORTANT** please note that enabling or disabling payments in Magento's admin area has no effect on payment methods visible on the storefront. This is a *feature* from the module: every active payment methods in Adyen will be available. **You either have to filter them in the frontend or from your Adyen account.**
</blockquote>

### Add the Adyen client key in the environment

You need to define the `FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY` environment variable so that it contains [your Adyen client key](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/client-side-authentication) for the domains of your Front-Commerce stores:

```sh
# In .env
FRONT_COMMERCE_ADYEN_CLIENT_KEY=live_32charactersstring
# the Adyen client key is prefixed with live_ or test_
```

### Register the Adyen for Magento2 payment module in Front-Commerce

Same as above

### Register your Adyen payment components

Same as above

### Update your CSPs

Same as above

### Register custom styles (optional)

Same as above

### Add webhook

Same as above

> 

Reviewer 2: We can link to the above sections?

Author: yes it worked
